

Amazon Web Services (AWS) cloud adoption framework is basically a set of principles and a process guideline which AWS customers can use to plan and adopt cloud computing. This framework helps AWS customers in avoiding the common pitfalls and in taking full advantage of the cloud computing benefits. It’s basically a set of well-defined principles and guidelines that any customer can follow to help reduce the probability of problems while moving to the cloud.
AWS Professional Services created the AWS Cloud Adoption Framework (AWS CAF) to help organisations develop and execute effective and efficient plans for their cloud adoption journey. Guidance and best practices provided by the framework help you develop a holistic approach to cloud computing in your organisation and throughout the IT lifecycle. Using AWS CAF enables you to realise measurable business benefits from cloud adoption faster and with less risk.
Adoption Framework helps you identify key cloud adoption activities and objectives to accelerate your move to the cloud.
 
The AWS cloud adoption framework was created by a team of experts with decades of experience. The framework consists of 6 steps. First, select your cloud implementation partner. The implementation partner should be able to handle all of your cloud implementation needs. Next, make sure your company has the right culture and resources to implement cloud technologies. Third, create a business case. Fourth, build your cloud implementation roadmap. Fifth, ensure your project is on track. And finally, continue improving!

Image source: Cloud Computing Services - Amazon Web Services (AWS)
It is used to get on demand services from the cloud. If you are in the AWS cloud adoption framework, you can focus your time on the core business and leave infrastructure technology to AWS. AWS cloud adoption framework is an integration architecture. This is used to handle applications in the cloud. AWS cloud adoption framework is the combination of services, tools, and patterns to handle cloud application. AWS cloud adoption framework must provide high availability. It should be easy to use and provide low cost.
AWS cloud adoption framework is actually a guide to help organisations to adopt cloud platforms in an effective and efficient manner. The AWS cloud adoption framework is designed to help organisations to adopt cloud computing. It is a guide to help organisations to adopt cloud platforms in an effective and efficient manner. The framework contains six steps for effective cloud adoption. The framework is all about the success of cloud computing.

